= OSM-based map application

Well, it's Rails-based local map application with bla.. sorry, search and POI categories presenting OpenStreetMap data.
You can see a working example at http://kalugamap.ru

You may use it for any (relatively small) region which is presented in OpenStreetMap - your country, city, district, favourite park or living room (well, really you should map your living room on OpenStreetMap first).

You may tune bundled styles, which are generated using excellent {TileMill}[http://mapbox.com/tilemill/] application from {this project}[https://github.com/alno/mapstyle].
It's really easy to create your own sky-and-pink map style for your girlfriend, for example.

== Dependencies

First of all you need:

* {Postgresql}[http://www.postgresql.org/] database installed (in Ubuntu it's <tt>postgresql-9.1</tt> package)
* {Postgis}[http://postgis.refractions.net/] extension for spatial data representation (in Ubuntu it's <tt>postgresql-9.1-postgis</tt> package)
* {Sphinx}[http://sphinxsearch.com/] search engine (in Ubuntu it's <tt>sphinxsearch</tt> package)

If you want to render map tiles, when you also need:

* {Mapnik}[http://mapnik.org/](dev) installed (in Ubuntu you may use package <tt>libmapnik-dev</tt> from https://launchpad.net/~mapnik/+archive/nightly-trunk).
* {GDal}[http://www.gdal.org/] with its Python wrappers installed (in Ubuntu they are <tt>gdal-bin</tt> and <tt>python-gdal</tt> packages)

=== Bundled dependencies

There are bundled versions of {Osm2pgsql}[http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Osm2pgsql] and hillshading tools in <tt>vendor/bin</tt> compiled for x86_64 architecture.

Why bundling them? There are reasons:

* Tools for SRTM procesing and hillshade generation usually are not present in repositories, so you need to compile it by yourself.
* Usually Osm2pgsql tool from repositories is compiled without OSMID64 flag, so it can't present big object identifiers.

So, don't bother about these problems and just use bundled versions if you are lucky to have 64-bit architecture.
If you don't - so, be ready for some {fun}[http://dwarffortresswiki.org/index.php/Fun].
Well, really, there is nothing scary in compiling it by yourself =)
And maybe I'll bundle 32-bit versions also.

== Installation

Well, installation is simple - clone this repository:

  git clone git://github.com/alno/mapapp.git

Or download zipball from:

  https://github.com/alno/mapapp/zipball/master

And then move to database preparation.

== Preparing database

Well, there was a manual in OSM wiki, I should find it and link here...

== Configuring

There are 3 configuration files for now:

* <tt>database.yml</tt> - database settings (did you expect anything else?)
* <tt>sphinx.yml</tt> - sphinx search engine settings
* <tt>mapapp.yml</tt> - your application settings

For each file there is corresponding <tt>.sample</tt> file which you may use as a base for configuring.

In <tt>database.yml</tt> you should set your database name, host, username, password...
*Caveat!* Database adapter should be <tt>postgis</tt> according to used geo adapter requirements.

In <tt>sphinx.yml</tt> you may set which stemmer to use. Yes, there are some other options, but you should change them only if you know them

And there are plenty of options in <tt>mapapp.yml</tt>:

* +secret_token+ - you really need to change it to something secret, as it's used in subscription of your session data to prevent some attacks
* +map+ - map options

  * +init+ - initial position of map (latitude, longitude and zoom level)
  * +bbox+ - bounding box of diplayed data
  * +min_zoom+ - minimal zoom level
  * +max_zoom+ - maximal (nearest) zoom level
  * +styles+ - map styles you want to display on map
  * +style_base+ - base url for your tiles

=== Contributors

* Alexey Noskov ({alno}[https://github.com/alno])

Copyright © 2012 Alexey Noskov, released under the {MIT license}[http://www.opensource.org/licenses/MIT]
